# ERDERA-RD3 Expressions

## Individuals: Year of birth validation

This validation expression determines if the year (a number) is
greater than the current year or earlier than fixed year. By default,
the earliest year allowed is 1900, and the current year is based on
the UTC date.

Input value must be in four digit year format (`YYYY`). If the value
is not within range, an error message will be thrown when data is
imported in a file or when it is entered into the web form.

**Arguments**:

| Param | Type | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| yearOfBirth | `number` | a year as four digits (YYYY) |

**Example**  

```js
validateYearOfBirth(1200) // returns error
validateYearOfBirth(2100) // returns error
validateYearOfBirth(2020) // returns true
```

## validateMaterialsIndividuals

This validation expression addresses an issue in the model where a material can
be linked to one or more individual but not for all material types. By using this
validation expression, we can restrict this for subclasses.

The alternative option is to create separate columns in the model, but we would like
to avoid doings this at the moment; however, we may decide to do this at some future
timepoint.

| Param | Type | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| tableclass | `string` | value generated by mg_tableclass |
| individuals | `array` | individuals column input if defined |

**Example**  

```js
validateIndividuals('Samples', [{...}, {...}]) // returns error
validateIndividuals('Samples', [{...}]) // returns true
validateIndividuals('Files', [{...}]) // returns true
validateIndividuals('Files', [{...}, {...}]) // returns true
```

## Samples: Concentration validation

This expression validates the input of the concentration column.
Concentration measures are defined by the study protocols and
must be between 90 ng/µl and 150 ng/µl. If the value is outside
of this range, than an error message will be thrown on import
or entry into the webform.

**Arguments**:

| Param | Type | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| concentration | `decimal` | concentration measurement (ng/µl) |

**Example**  

```js
validateConcentration(0) // returns error
validateConcentration(200) // returns error
validateConcentration(100) // returns true
```
